README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">👋 Hey, I'm Deepanshu Singla</h1>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://readme-typing-svg.herokuapp.com?font=Fira+Code&size=26&duration=3000&pause=1000&color=36BCF7&center=true&vCenter=true&width=750&lines=Full+Stack+Developer+⚡;Backend+Engineer+%7C+FastAPI+%26+Node.js+🚀;Open+Source+Contributor+🌍;Cloud+%26+AI+Tech+Enthusiast+☁️" alt="Typing Animation" />
</p>

---

## 👨‍💻 About Me  

I’m **Deepanshu Singla**, a **Full-Stack Developer** and **Computer Science student at Chitkara University (CGPA: 9.15)**.  

I specialize in building **scalable backend systems** and **intuitive web apps** using **React.js**, **Next.js**, **Node.js**, **Express.js**, **MongoDB**, and **Firebase**.  
With solid foundations in **Java**, **C++**, **Python**, and **SQL**, I focus on writing clean, performant, and maintainable code.  

Currently, I’m enhancing my **Java DSA** skills and exploring **AI-driven backend systems** to create smarter and faster applications.  

🚀 **Goal:** To craft impactful, production-ready software that merges innovation with reliability.

---

## 💻 Tech Stack  

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=react,nextjs,nodejs,express,fastapi,python,typescript,js,java,mongodb,postgres,redis,aws,docker,git,github,linux,vscode&perline=9" />
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Socket.IO-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=socket.io&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TailwindCSS-06B6D4?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwindcss&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/JWT-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=jsonwebtokens&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Bcrypt-002C3E?style=for-the-badge" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Helmet.js-4B8BBE?style=for-the-badge" />
</p>

---

## 🚀 Featured Projects  

### [AetherMeet](https://aethermeet-web.onrender.com) — *Real-Time Messaging Platform*  
Secure, real-time chat platform with ephemeral message storage and strong auth.  
**Stack:** Node.js · Express · MongoDB · Socket.IO · JWT · Helmet.js  
**🔗 Live:** [aethermeet-web.onrender.com](https://aethermeet-web.onrender.com)

---

### [FiSight](https://github.com/deepanshusingla076/FiSight) — *AI Financial Assistant*  
ML-powered personal finance tracker offering insights and analytics.  
**Stack:** React · FastAPI · MongoDB  
**🔗 Repo:** [github.com/deepanshusingla076/FiSight](https://github.com/deepanshusingla076/FiSight)

---

### [Quiz-apc](https://github.com/deepanshusingla076/Quiz-apc) — *Gamified Quiz Application*  
Interactive quiz app with authentication, leaderboard, and real-time scoring.  
**Stack:** React · Node.js · Express · MongoDB  
**🔗 Repo:** [github.com/deepanshusingla076/Quiz-apc](https://github.com/deepanshusingla076/Quiz-apc)

---

### [Rizzard Backend](https://github.com/deepanshusingla076/rizzard_backend) — *API Backend Service*  
Backend for Rizzard app handling authentication and content APIs.  
**Stack:** FastAPI · Node.js · MongoDB  
**🔗 Repo:** [github.com/deepanshusingla076/rizzard_backend](https://github.com/deepanshusingla076/rizzard_backend)

---

### Smart Attendance System — *IoT Face Recognition*  
IoT-based face recognition attendance system using ESP32-CAM + AWS.  
**Stack:** Python · AWS · OpenCV  

---

## 🧩 Open Source & Community  

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/deepanshusingla076/deepanshusingla076/blob/main/Contributors%20badge.jpg" width="200" alt="GSSoC 2025 Badge" />
</p>

- 💻 Contributor at **GSSoC 2025 (GirlScript Summer of Code)**  
- 🧠 Focused on backend architecture, validation, and error handling improvements  
- 🌍 Active participant in open-source projects and developer communities  

---

## 🏅 Certifications  

- C Programming — Coursera  
- Python — Coding Ninjas  
- Blockchain Technology — Coursera  
- Cloud Computing — Coursera  
- 160 Days of Problem Solving — GeeksforGeeks  

---

## 🏆 Highlights  

- Participated in **7+ hackathons** and **AI/Cloud innovation events**  
- Attended **Google Cloud Agentic AI Day 2025**  
- Building and maintaining **open-source backend utilities**  

---

## 📊 GitHub Insights  

<p align="center">
  <img width="49%" src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=deepanshusingla076&show_icons=true&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true&count_private=true" />
  <img width="49%" src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=deepanshusingla076&layout=compact&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true" />
</p>

---

## 🌐 Connect with Me  

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/deepanshu-singla-519057335" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-Deepanshu%20Singla-0A66C2?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="mailto:deepanshusingla0076@gmail.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-deepanshusingla0076%40gmail.com-EA4335?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
</p>

---

## 🖥️ Portfolio  

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://deepanshu-singla.vercel.app" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Visit%20My%20Portfolio-deepanshu--singla.vercel.app-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=vercel&logoColor=white" alt="Portfolio Link" />
  </a>
</p>

---

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=deepanshusingla076&label=Profile%20Views&color=blueviolet&style=for-the-badge" />
</p>

<p align="center">
  ✨ “Code. Learn. Contribute. Repeat.”  
  <br>⭐ From <a href="https://github.com/deepanshusingla076">deepanshusingla076</a>
</p>

Commit message:

Revise README for improved clarity and engagement
Updated personal introduction, tech stack, and project descriptions for clarity and engagement.

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">👋 Hey, I'm Deepanshu Singla</h1>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://readme-typing-svg.herokuapp.com?font=Fira+Code&size=26&duration=3000&pause=1000&color=36BCF7&center=true&vCenter=true&width=750&lines=Full+Stack+Developer+⚡;Backend+Engineer+🚀;Open+Source+Contributor+🌍;Cloud+%26+AI+Enthusiast+☁️" alt="Typing Animation" />
</p>

---

## 👨‍💻 About Me  

🎯 Passionate **Full-Stack Developer** and **CSE student (CGPA: 9.15)** at *Chitkara University*, building impactful digital products with modern tech and clean architecture.  

- 💡 Expert in **React.js**, **Next.js**, **Node.js**, **Express**, **MongoDB**, and **Firebase**  
- 🧠 Strong foundation in **Java**, **C++**, **Python**, and **SQL** for robust logic design  
- 🚀 Currently enhancing **DSA in Java** and exploring **AI-powered web systems**  
- 🤝 Active **Open Source Contributor (GSSoC 2025)**  
- 🌱 Always learning, building, and pushing the boundaries of innovation  

---

## 💻 Tech Stack  

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=react,nextjs,nodejs,express,fastapi,python,typescript,js,java,mongodb,postgres,redis,aws,docker,git,github,linux,vscode&perline=9" />
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Socket.IO-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=socket.io&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TailwindCSS-06B6D4?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwindcss&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/JWT-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=jsonwebtokens&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Bcrypt-002C3E?style=for-the-badge" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Helmet.js-4B8BBE?style=for-the-badge" />
</p>

---

## 🚀 Featured Projects  

### [AetherMeet](https://aethermeet-web.onrender.com) — *Real-Time Messaging Platform*  
💬 Secure, ephemeral chat app with real-time sockets, media sharing & auto-cleanup.  
**Stack:** Node.js · Express · MongoDB · Socket.IO · JWT · Helmet.js  
**🔗 Live:** [aethermeet-web.onrender.com](https://aethermeet-web.onrender.com)

---

### [FiSight](https://github.com/deepanshusingla076/FiSight) — *AI Financial Assistant*  
🤖 ML-based personal finance tracker offering smart insights & analytics.  
**Stack:** React · FastAPI · MongoDB  
**🔗 Repo:** [github.com/deepanshusingla076/FiSight](https://github.com/deepanshusingla076/FiSight)

---

### [Quiz-apc](https://github.com/deepanshusingla076/Quiz-apc) — *Gamified Quiz Platform*  
🎮 Real-time quizzes with leaderboard, scoring, and authentication.  
**Stack:** React · Node.js · Express · MongoDB  
**🔗 Repo:** [github.com/deepanshusingla076/Quiz-apc](https://github.com/deepanshusingla076/Quiz-apc)

---

### [Rizzard Backend](https://github.com/deepanshusingla076/rizzard_backend) — *API Backend Service*  
⚙️ Backend for Rizzard app managing auth, content, and MongoDB data ops.  
**Stack:** FastAPI · Node.js · MongoDB  
**🔗 Repo:** [github.com/deepanshusingla076/rizzard_backend](https://github.com/deepanshusingla076/rizzard_backend)

---

### Smart Attendance System — *IoT Face Recognition*  
📸 IoT-powered face recognition attendance using ESP32-CAM + AWS.  
**Stack:** Python · AWS · OpenCV  

---

## 🧩 Open Source & Community  

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/deepanshusingla076/deepanshusingla076/blob/main/Contributors-badge.jpg" width="200" alt="GSSoC 2025 Badge" />
</p>

- 💻 Contributor at **GSSoC 2025 (GirlScript Summer of Code)**  
- 🔧 Focus: backend architecture, data validation, and scalable error handling  
- 🌍 Passionate about building reliable tools for the open-source ecosystem  

---

## 🏅 Certifications  

- C Programming — Coursera  
- Python — Coding Ninjas  
- Blockchain Technology — Coursera  
- Cloud Computing — Coursera  
- 160 Days of Problem Solving — GeeksforGeeks  

---

## 🏆 Highlights  

- 🏅 Participated in **7+ hackathons** and **AI/Cloud innovation events**  
- ☁️ Attended **Google Cloud Agentic AI Day 2025**  
- 💼 Maintaining **open-source backend utilities** and collaborative projects  

---

## 📊 GitHub Insights  

<p align="center">
  <img width="49%" src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=deepanshusingla076&show_icons=true&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true&count_private=true" />
  <img width="49%" src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=deepanshusingla076&layout=compact&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true" />
</p>

---

## 🌐 Connect with Me  

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/deepanshu-singla-519057335" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-Deepanshu%20Singla-0A66C2?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="mailto:deepanshusingla0076@gmail.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-deepanshusingla0076%40gmail.com-EA4335?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
</p>

---

## 🖥️ Portfolio  

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://deepanshu-singla.vercel.app" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Visit%20My%20Portfolio-deepanshu--singla.vercel.app-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=vercel&logoColor=white" alt="Portfolio Link" />
  </a>
</p>

---

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=deepanshusingla076&label=Profile%20Views&color=blueviolet&style=for-the-badge" />
</p>

<p align="center">
  ✨ “Code. Learn. Contribute. Repeat.”  
  <br>⭐ From <a href="https://github.com/deepanshusingla076">deepanshusingla076</a>
</p>
